Time to work on the last two pieces, the orders and again feel free to pause the video and try implementing
this on your own,
it's always a great practice even if you can't get the full result or full equivalence to my solution
or if you get stuck at one point, you can still then go back and watch the solution together with me
but you will still have a lot of practice by trying parts of that on your own.
So here's your chance to pause the video and we'll do it together thereafter.
So let's dive into that together and let's work on our orders now, creating orders and getting the orders,
that is what we want to do
and let's first of all look into our controller for that, the shop controller.
There we have
post order,
now what are we doing there?
Well here first of all we got an unused variable which we can get rid of, there we call add order on
the user and that's essentially it,
so let's look into the user model and let's see what add order did. Add order simply took our cart,
so the products in our carts to be precise and created an order object which contains the product data
but also some data about the user
and then we inserted this into an order collection.
Now since we worked with a collection there, we'll need a new model that's for sure
and the then is a result we just cleared the cart. So we get multiple steps we need to do here,
first I'll add an order.js file in the models folder because I'll need an order model to store
data in an orders collection.
First of all let's import mongoose here by requiring mongoose like that,
let's create the schema constant where we access mongoose schema like this
and let's then define our order schema and how that should look like
and of course here you can really also go with the schema that works for you
or that you want to use.
Now I will try to recreate the schema we used before where an order had the items and the user data
and that was it and the items were our products which in the past was all the product data and the quantity.
So here in my schema, I will have my products let's say, I named it items in the past, here I'll name it
products. Products will be an array of documents and every document will let's say have the product data
which will be of type object because this will be a full other document you could say that is required
and besides the product data, I'll have to quantity for that product,
could also name this just product here by the way if you wanted to.
So here the quantity and that will be a type of number and this should also be required. Ok so this is how
my products will look like,
now I also will have a user and there I want to have a name
let's say where the type is a string and this is required and what else did we store about the user
in the past,
well just the ID so also have my user ID here which is of type schema types objectid and which is also
required
and this will also refer to the user model. Now type object by the way is a bit of a shortcut,
of course we could define the full nested product with all the properties there,
feel free to do that,
I'll just say well this is any object.
So this is my order schema,
now I'll export a model based on that schema with mongoose model, name that order and hence the collection
will be named orders
and then I got my order schema there.
Ok so
now I got my order model and that is new, we didn't use that before in the last module, we could have
but now we well we implemented it differently there.
Now since we use a model based package again for interacting with the data, we have to be more strict about
that
and that is a good thing generally and therefore we have an order model again. Now with the order model
added
the question is how do we interact between the order model and the user
now? We had add order in the past and add order essentially just grabbed user data, products, created
an order and stored it,
now I still want to do that but I'll do it in a controller now. In post order,
I'll work a bit differently, I will first of all import my order model at the top from models order
like this,
so this import was added
and then down there in post order, I will create a new order object by using that order model constructor.
Now that order object needs to be initialized and it needs to be initialized in the way we defined it here,
so it needs to get products and it needs to get some user data.
Now the user data is a bit simpler,
we got our request user,
so here we have the name which is request user name because remember, request user is a full user object
fetched from the database
so there will be a name property and we also want to store the ID of that user in the order,
we also have like the user ID,
so we should store that as well,
so we'll add user ID here and that will simply be, well we can just use the entire request user object
and as I mentioned mongoose will pick the ID from there.
Ok
so this is the easier part,
now we also need to add the products for these users cart.
However it's not that difficult because we already implemented something similar. For getting the cart,
we use this approach for fetching all the products that are in the users cart.
So in the end we can just copy this here, all the way up to the part where I extract the products and
reuse that in post order at the beginning here,
just make sure to close that then function here
and here we now got the products that are in the users cart.
Now important is just products is not entirely correct,
you should remember that here we have an array of elements were we have the quantity and then the real
product data was nested in a product ID field
but we can work with that of course.
We can now create our order inside of this then block and here, we can now add products which should be
an array of products and that should be an array of products which is a bit transformed,
so not the structure of products we get back here but after some transformations, to be precise products
for us need to have a product field with the product data and a quantity field, that is almost what we have
but we have the product data in a product ID field here, not in a product field but that is easy to fix.
I will simply not just extract items like this,
I will also map the items so that I store the changed items in my products array and a mapped item should
still have its quantity so I'll keep that, the i simply refers to the item since this function goes
through all items in that array, so we'll have the quantity. And then we'll have a product field and the product
field should have all the product data so that we'll store everything that I had in i product ID before
because that was the old structure we had in there,
now we have this structure,
we have an array of products which just have a quantity and then the product detail data which is exactly
the structure we expect to get in the order model
and now we can simply store these products in the order.
And with that we got everything we need
almost, now we just need to call save on that order, so order save now saves that order to the database.
And then we can chain then on that
once we return order save so that we can also redirect and so on.
Let's see if that works by going to our shop routes again and commenting the create order route back
in and now back in our project,
let me first of all add a second product so that we get something to play around with and see that this
does not get added, this is just a dummy product obviously.
So now in our cart we got no products,
let's add a nice book to our cart,
maybe also from the details page
and let's not add the other product and let's click
order now.
Now we don't find the page we want to redirect to,
that's fine and the cart also was not cleared because we haven't added that logic yet
but let's have a look into compass and let's see, if we refresh the entire setup,
we got the orders collection and in there I got an order with some user data, that looks pretty good,
let's quickly confirm the user ID,
it ends with 8A8,
that looks good and let's have a look at the products there too
and there I got a quantity of two and I got my product ID.
Well the product ID, is that what I wanted though? I wanted all the product data right,
let's fix that in the next lecture.